---
title: "IIUC Notes - Old School Voice Stuff"
date: 2010-09-08
categories: 
  - "cisco"
  - "voice"
tags: 
  - "analog"
  - "ccna"
  - "cert"
  - "certification"
  - "cisco"
  - "digital"
  - "exam"
  - "iiuc"
  - "notes"
  - "test"
  - "voice"
---

These are the notes I've taken as I read through the study materials.  Feel free to correct anything you see.

- Analog phone signaling
    - Misc
        - Ground = positive = **tip**
        - Battery = negative = **ring**
        - Signaling uses specific frequencies for specific events
    - **Loop start signaling**
        - When a circuit in the phone is completed (i.e., you take it off-hook), the CO detects it and provides services.
        - Susceptible to **glare**, where the phone requests dialtone at the same time that the CO sends a call.
            - Can connect two different calls if in a business with multiple lines
    - **Ground start signaling**
        - The circuit is temporarily completed to signal the CO for services
        - Doesn't connect any call to any phone directly
        - Used in PBXes.
    - **Supervisory signaling**
        - On-hook:  Circuit is open
        - Off-hook:  Circuit is completed
        - Ringing:  AC current generated by CO to tell the phone to ring
    - **Informational signaling**
        - Gives information for the caller to use
        - Dial tone
        - Busy
        - Ringback: the ring you hear when you call
        - Confirmation:  the call is being attempted
        - Congestion:  no lines available to make the call
        - Receiver off-hook
        - Reorder:  can't make the call
        - No such number:  can't find the endpoint
    - **Address signaling**
        - Used to send digits
        - Dual-tone multifrequency (DTMF):  uses two electrical signals to indicate a digit; touch tone
        - Pulse:  flashes the circuit to indicate a digit; rotary dial
    - Disadvantages of analog signaling
        - Attenuation
        - Repeaters can't differentiate between call and noise
        - One cable pair for each call; think about a pair for each call taking place in Manhattan right now

- Digitizing voice
    - Steps
        
        - **Sampling**: taking samples of the voice
            - Nyquist method:  sample rate = 2 x highest frequency
            - Human voices usually stay below 4000Hz, so a good sampling rate is 8000 samples/second.
            - Pulse-amplitude modulation (PAM)
        
        - **Quantization**:  assigning values to the sample
            - Assignment based on amplitude of the signal
            - Logarithmic scale for better accuracy at the more common amplitudes
        
        - **Encoding**:  converting quantization to binary
            - Pulse-code modulation (PCM)
            - 8 bits/sample \* 8k samples/second = 64k bpbs
        - **Compression**:  optionally compress the binary information
    - Advantages
        - Transmitting numbers is less susceptible to attenuation
        - Multiple digital voice signals can use same pair
            - Time division multiplexing (TDM)

- Digital signaling
    - 24 channels \* 8 bits/sample = 192 bits of voice
    - The T1 frame sends all 24 channels in one T1 frame with 1 bit for framing bit, so the T1 frame = 193 bits
    - 193 bits/frame \* 8k frames/second = 1.544 Mbps
    - **Channel associated signaling (CAS)**:  steals bits in a channel for signaling
        - The 8th bit of every 6th sample is stolen for signaling
        - Super frame (SF) uses 12 frames to synchronize a signal, so 12 samples are required to be received for synchronization (12/8000 second).
        - Extended super frame (ESF) uses 24 frames; 2000 bps for sync, 2000 bps for errors, 4000 bps for control and reporting
    - **Common channel signaling (CAC)**:  uses a dedicated channel for signaling
        - Q.931 is a CAC signaling standard.

- The PSTN
    - Phone companies connect together using **SS7** signaling (a CAC method), which is responsible for routing the call.
    - **E.164** is an ITU standard for phone numbers.
        - Country code
        - National destination code
        - Subscriber number
